---
layout: post
title: "Git"
date:   2023-09-17 19:57:39 +1000
categories: fullstack
---



## Git Setup

##### global
```git config --list --global``` to see all glocal git account
```git config --global user.name ***```
```git config --global user.email ***```
Redo will override.

##### local
If you have a lot of git accounts, use the most frequently used one as global. Set up other local account inside the project folder.
```git config user.name ***```
```git config user.email ***```
Local git account has higher priority, will override the global account.


## Setting up a repo

From existing company one:
```git clone ```



## Restore
```git rm``` from commit
```git rm --catched``` from stage

## Stash
A temporary drawer for unfinished versions
```git stash```
```git stash list```
```git stash apply 0```

## Undo changes

```git checkout .```
```git clean -f```
```git revert```
```git reset```

## Recommit
When you do something more right after you make a commit, you want to commit again, but it is unnecessary.  
```git commit --amend --no-edit``` to add new changes to the previous commit, not changing the previous comment.


## Branches
Every task needs a new branch
Naming convension: <type>/<ticket-number>-<title>

```git branch``` check your current branch and other branches
```git checkout -b feature1``` open a new branch called feature1
```git checkout feature1``` go to feature1 branch

##### Merge
1. ```git checkout master``` go to master branch
2. ```git merge feature1``` merge feature1 to master

##### Everyday work routine - first thing to do
1. On master branch: git pull
2. On your branch: git rebase master


## Remote Repo

When kicking off in a company

```git clone ``` to clone source code and histories
```git remote --verbose``` or ```git remote -v``` to check remote url
Now you are in your local master branch. But remote master doesn't allow your local master to push.
```git checkout -b diana-17-sept``` to open your own branch

After you do something
```git branch -u <name> <branch>``` or just click "sync". sync means pull and push

How to check remote changes
```git checkout master``` go to your local master
```git fetch``` check remote changes
```git pull``` sync with remote

You do something in your own branch
```git push <name> <branch>``` or click "sync" 


## Rebase
Same as MERGE in terms of result.
Difference is MERGE shows a full tree, REBASE shows a clean tree.

For senior dev，interactive rebase for trimming branch
```git rebase -i HEAD~5```



